A statement is text that the database recognizes as a valid command. Statements always end in a semicolon ;.

CREATE TABLE table_name (
   column_1 data_type, 
   column_2 data_type, 
   column_3 data_type
);

CREATE TABLE is a clause. Clauses perform specific tasks in SQL. By convention, clauses are written in capital letters. Clauses can also be referred to as commands.

table_name refers to the name of the table that the command is applied to.

(column_1 data_type, column_2 data_type, column_3 data_type) is a parameter. A parameter is a list of columns, data types, or values that are passed to a clause as an argument. Here, the parameter is a list of column names and the associated data type.


We can use the INSERT statement when you want to add new records. The statement below enters a record for Justin Bieber into the celebs table.


INSERT INTO celebs (id, name, age) 
VALUES (1, 'Justin Bieber', 29);
INSERT INTO is a clause that adds the specified row or rows.
celebs is the table the row is added to.
(id, name, age) is a parameter identifying the columns that data will be inserted into.
VALUES is a clause that indicates the data being inserted.
(1, 'Justin Bieber', 29) is a parameter identifying the values being inserted.


* is a special wildcard character that we have been using. It allows you to select every column in a table without having to name each one individually.


ALTER TABLE is a clause that lets you make the specified changes.
2. celebs is the name of the table that is being changed.
3. ADD COLUMN is a clause that lets you add a new column to a table


1. UPDATE is a clause that edits a row in the table.
2. celebs is the name of the table.
3. SET is a clause that indicates the column to edit.

twitter_handle is the name of the column that is going to be updated
@taylorswift13 is the new value that is going to be inserted into the twitter_handle column.
4. WHERE is a clause that indicates which row(s) to update with the new column value. Here the row with a 4 in the id column is the row that will have the twitter_handle updated to @taylorswift13.

The DELETE FROM statement deletes one or more rows from a table. You can use the statement when you want to delete existing records.


PRIMARY KEY columns can be used to uniquely identify the row. Attempts to insert a row with an identical value to a row already in the table will result in a constraint violation which will not allow you to insert the new row.

2. UNIQUE columns have a different value for every row. This is similar to PRIMARY KEY except a table can have many different UNIQUE columns.

3. NOT NULL columns must have a value. Attempts to insert a row without a value for a NOT NULL column will result in a constraint violation and the new row will not be inserted.

4. DEFAULT columns take an additional argument that will be the assumed value for an inserted row if the new row does not specify a value for that column.



CREATE TABLE creates a new table.
INSERT INTO adds a new row to a table.
SELECT queries data from a table.
ALTER TABLE changes an existing table.
UPDATE edits a row in a table.
DELETE FROM deletes rows from a table.